= rsched

A Generic Reliable Scheduler. It's like cron, but rsched supports redundancy using multiple servers.


== Architecture

1. rsched virtually locks a record on a RDBMS.
2. if the schedule is not finished and not locked by other node, run it.
3. if it succeeded, mark it finished.
4. if it failed, unlock it and expect to be retried.


== Install

  $ gem install rsched
  $ gem install dbd-mysql    # to use MySQL as a lock database
  $ gem install dbd-sqlite3  # to use SQLite3 as a lock database


== Schedule

A schedule consists of ident, time and action. Ident describes unique identifier of the schedule that. Time describes when it should be scheduled. Action is an description of the schedule.

Format of the time is same as cron. See `man 5 cron` for details.

_Example:_

  # Run every minutes
  $ rsched -a 'mysched * * * * * my descriptoin of this action' ...

  # Run every day at 00:00
  $ rsched -a 'mywork 0 0 * * * aaaa uuu ee' ...

  # Use SQLite3 for the lock database
  $ rsched -T mysql -H myhost -D mydb -u myuser -p mypassword ...

  # Use MySQL for the lock database
  $ rsched -T sqlite3 -D /path/to/db.sqlite3 ...

== Usage

  Usage: rsched [options] [-- <ARGV-for-exec-or-run>]
          --configure PATH.yaml        Write configuration file
          --exec COMMAND               Execute command
          --run SCRIPT.rb              Run method named 'run' defined in the script
      -a, --add EXPR                   Add an execution schedule
      -t, --timeout SEC                Retry timeout (default: 600)
      -r, --resume SEC                 Limit time to resume tasks (default: 3600)
      -E, --delete SEC                 Limit time to delete tasks (default: 2592000)
      -n, --name NAME                  Unique name of this node (default: PID.HOSTNAME)
      -w, --delay SEC                  Delay time before running a task (default: 0)
      -F, --from UNIX_TIME_OR_now      Time to start scheduling
      -i, --interval SEC               Scheduling interval (default: 10)
      -T, --type TYPE                  Lock database type (default: mysql)
      -D, --database DB                Database name
      -H, --host HOST[:PORT]           Database host
      -u, --user NAME                  Database user name
      -p, --password PASSWORD          Database password
      -d, --daemon PIDFILE             Daemonize (default: foreground)
      -f, --file PATH.yaml             Read configuration file

Lock database (-T) is used to synchronize scheduling status over multiple servers. Rsched supports following database types:

* *mysql* uses MySQL as a lock database. Note that 'dbd-mysql' gem must be installed.
* *sqlite3* uses SQLite3 as a lock database. Note that 'dbd-sqlite3' gem must be installed.


One of --exec, --run or --configure is required. The behavior of the commands is described below:


=== exec

Execute a command when an action is scheduled. ident, time and action is passed to the stdin with tab-separated format. The command have to exit with status code 0 when it succeeded.

_Example:_

  #!/usr/bin/env ruby
  ident, time, action = STDIN.read.split("\t", 3)
  t = Time.at(time.to_i)
  puts "scheduled on #{t} ident=#{ident} action=#{action}"
  
  # $ rsched -a 'mysched * * * * * des' -T sqlite3 -D test.db -F now --exec ./this_file


=== run

This is same as 'exec' except that this calls a method named 'run' defined in the file instead of executing the file. It is assumed it succeeded if the method doesn't any raise errors.

_Example:_

  def run(ident, time, action)
    t = Time.at(time)
    puts "scheduled on #{t} ident=#{ident} action=#{action}"
  end
  
  # $ rsched -a 'mysched * * * * * des' -T sqlite3 -D test.db -F now --exec ./this_file.rb

